Welcome to nishamadhulika.com.
Today we will prepare Namkeen Masala Sev which all of you will surely like as its tasty and easy to make.
Ingredients required :
Gramflour - 2 cups
Oil - 1/4 cup
Baking soda - less than 1/4 tsp
Ajjwain(carom seeds) - 1/4 tsp
Grinded spices(masala) - 10-12 black pepper, 4-5 clove, 1 cinnamon stick an inch long
Salt - add to taste or 1/2 tsp
Oil - to fry sev
To prepare Sev first we have to knead gramflour with baking soda,
ajjwain(crush to enhance flavour), grinded spices, salt and mix.
Add oil, then water to the mixture and knead well for a soft dough.
The dough has to be softer than that required for chapati.
After preparing the dough leave it aside for 10 mins as the dough needs to ferment.
Now the gramflour dough has fermented and is set to prepare Sev.
A Sev making machine is required to prepare Sev which comes with
various shape cutters. We will use the one with holes in it.
Fix the shape cutter in the machine then open the container which is to be filled with the dough.
Apply some oil on your hands to avoid the dough from sticking to them.Now take some of the dough and roll it lengthwise.
Place it in the container and repeat till the container is filled.
Close the lid of the container tightly and our machine is ready to use.
Heat oil in pan, check if its heated by putting a small piece of the dough.
If the oil is hot then piece will float else sink to the bottom.
Place machine over pan and push the piston upwards, Sev oozes out of the container into hot oil.
Pour as much desired Sev into pan and then remove machine.
As the Sev comes on the surface of the oil we will upturn it.
Lower flame to make Sev crispy.
Remove Sev from pan and place it on a strainer with a plate under it to hold excess oil.
We do not have to fry Sev for a long time else it gets hard.
Repeat the same process with the machine until all the dough in it is used then fill container again.
Namkeen Masala Sev is now ready. This Namkeen Masala Sev was made using few spices.
If you prefer more spicy Sev then you can add 1/4 powdered black pepper and red chilli powder(according to taste).
Once Namkeen Masala Sev is prepared let it cool properly for 1-2 hrs then it can be stored in a container for 2-3 months.
It can be eaten as a teatime snack or something to nibble with your morning tea.
Try this recipe yourself and share your experiences with us.
We will meet again at nishamadhulika.com.